## Title: Advanced Debugging Techniques in Practice

### Abstract 

It's been ten years since the first release of "rr", an open-source
record-and-replay debugger with many real-world users. It's been five years
since the release of "Pernosco", a commercial omniscient debugger with some
real-world users. I'll give an overview of these tools and the technology
behind them. I'll explain why users adopted these tools and how they are used
in practice. Just as importantly, I'll present my understanding of why users
have NOT adopted these kinds of tools and what we might be able to do about
that.

### Bio 

In 2001 Robert graduated with a PhD in computer science from Carnegie
Mellon University, supervised by Daniel Jackson and Jeannette Wing, on
polymorphic type inference for context-sensitive alias analysis for Java code.
From 2001 to 2004 he worked at IBM Research on dynamic program analysis tools.
From 2000 he moonlighted as a volunteer working on the Mozilla open source
project, which became Firefox. In 2005 he moved back to New Zealand to work
full-time on Firefox's browser engine; Mozilla awarded him the title of
Distinguished Engineer. In his last few years at Mozilla he led the development
of "rr", a practical record-and-replay debugger supporting reverse execution,
used by many developers inside and outside Mozilla to the present day. He
continues as an rr maintainer to this day. In 2016 he left Mozilla to co-found
Pernosco, a startup working on cloud-based, omniscient debugging leveraging rr.
In 2022 he joined Google Research to work on various projects mostly unrelated
to debugging. He lives in New Zealand and enjoys hiking, board games and lay
preaching.
